_pages/about.md, before:

---
permalink: /
title: "About me"
excerpt: "About me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

- I am an Assistant Professor in [Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering](https://www.ce.ust.hk/) at [The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology](https://hkust.edu.hk/home).
- **PhD & Postdoc Opening**: I am looking for PhD students and Postdocs to work on smart building and building control starting from Spring/Autumn 2023. Students in building science, civil engineering, mechanical engineering, applied mathematics, or related majors with proficient coding skills are welcome to apply. Building modelling (EnergyPlus, Modelica preferred) or/and machine learning skill/experience is a plus. Please feel free to contact me with CV (and/or transcripts, sample publications) attached if you are interested. For more information, please check the [PhD (CIVL) program](https://prog-crs.ust.hk/pgprog/2020-21/mphil-phd-civl%20) and the [HKUST Graduate School](https://pg.ust.hk/prospective-students/home).
- Prior to joining HKUST, I was a Project Scientist in [Building Technology & Urban Systems Division](https://buildings.lbl.gov/) at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory from 2018 to 2021. I received my Ph.D. in School of Architecture at Tsinghua University, supervised by [Prof. Yingxin Zhu](http://www.arch.tsinghua.edu.cn/info/Building%20Science%20and%20Technology/1825) and [Prof. Borong Lin](http://www.arch.tsinghua.edu.cn/info/Building%20Science%20and%20Technology/1804), in 2017. I received my M.Phil degree in [Department of Engineering](http://www.eng.cam.ac.uk/) at University of Cambridge in 2014, and B.Eng. degree in School of Architecture at Tsinghua University in 2011.
- My current research interest is on smart building and building control. My broad research interests include model-based and data-driven performance enhancement for buildings and cities
- [Curriculum Vitae](http://walterzwang.github.io/files/CV.pdf)


Recent news
======
- Our team was awarded the [Gold Award](http://walterzwang.github.io/files/2022EMSDAIChallenge.pdf), **Best Use of Tencent Cloud Award**, and **Huawei Most Innovative Use of Data Award** in the [2022 Global AI Challenge for Building E&M Facilites](https://www.globalaichallenge.com/en/home) organized by Hong Kong EMSD (June 2022)
- I gave a guest lecture on Reinforcement Learning for Smart Building Control at *University College London* (Feb, 2022)
- I was awarded the *2021 Foshan University-Enterprise Collaborative R&D Fund*, as the co-PI, working on *Thermal Management for the Autonomous Cruise UVC Disinfection and Microclimate Air-conditioning Robot* (Jan, 2022)
- I accepted the invitation to join [the George H. W. Bush Foundation for U.S.-China Relations](https://bushchinafoundation.org/) as [Fellow](http://walterzwang.github.io/files/BushFoundationFellow.pdf) (Nov, 2021)
- I accepted the invitation to join the editorial board of *Frontiers in Built Environment* as Associate Editor (Nov, 2021)
- I gave a guest lecture on Application of Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) in Smart Buildings at *Syracuse University* (Nov, 2021)
- I accepted the offer to join *The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology* as Assistant Professor (Jul, 2021)
- I gave a talk on Data-driven Smart Building at *The Hong Kong Polytechnic University*. (May, 2021)
- I gave a talk on Data-driven Smart Building at *The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology*. (May, 2021)
- I gave a talk on Data-driven Smart Building at *Tsinghua Shenzhen International Graduate School*. (Mar, 2021)
- I accepted the invitation to join the editorial board of *Building Simulation* as Subject Editor (Jan, 2021)
- I gave a guest lecture on Application of Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) in Smart Buildings at *Syracuse University* (Oct, 2020)
- I presented Improving Building Performance Simulation with Detailed Occupant Movement and Behavior Modeling at *Building Performance Analysis Conference and SimBuild* (Aug, 2020)
- I presented Machine Learning for Anomaly Detection in Subjective Thermal Comfort Votes at *ASHRAE Winter's Conference* (Feb, 2020)
- I presented Inferring Occupant Counts from Wi-Fi Data at *ASHRAE Annual Conference* (Jul, 2019)
- I was invited to give a speech on the [Seventh-Round High-level Consultation on U.S.-China People to People Exchange](https://www.tsinghua.edu.cn/info/1756/71634.htm). This event was chaired by Chinese Vice Premier Yandong Liu and U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry. Zhe was the **ONLY** representative of Chinese young scholar (Jun, 2016)<br/><img src='/images/PeopleToPeopleExchange.png' width='800'>
- I was selected as a [Schwarzman Scholar](http://en.sc.tsinghua.edu.cn/) and enrolled into the [Inaugural Class](https://www.nytimes.com/2016/01/11/business/dealbook/schwarzman-scholars-announces-inaugural-class-to-study-in-china.html) (Dec, 2015)

Commit message:

update about and add Midea Project

_pages/about.md, after:

---
permalink: /
title: "About me"
excerpt: "About me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

- I am an Assistant Professor in [Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering](https://www.ce.ust.hk/) at [The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology](https://hkust.edu.hk/home).
- **PhD & Postdoc Opening**: I am looking for PhD students and Postdocs to work on smart building and building control starting from Spring/Autumn 2023. Students in building science, civil engineering, mechanical engineering, applied mathematics, or related majors with proficient coding skills are welcome to apply. Building modelling (EnergyPlus, Modelica preferred) or/and machine learning skill/experience is a plus. Please feel free to contact me with CV (and/or transcripts, sample publications) attached if you are interested. For more information, please check the [PhD (CIVL) program](https://prog-crs.ust.hk/pgprog/2020-21/mphil-phd-civl%20) and the [HKUST Graduate School](https://pg.ust.hk/prospective-students/home).
- Prior to joining HKUST, I was a Project Scientist in [Building Technology & Urban Systems Division](https://buildings.lbl.gov/) at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory from 2018 to 2021. I received my Ph.D. in School of Architecture at Tsinghua University, supervised by [Prof. Yingxin Zhu](http://www.arch.tsinghua.edu.cn/info/Building%20Science%20and%20Technology/1825) and [Prof. Borong Lin](http://www.arch.tsinghua.edu.cn/info/Building%20Science%20and%20Technology/1804), in 2017. I received my M.Phil degree in [Department of Engineering](http://www.eng.cam.ac.uk/) at University of Cambridge in 2014, and B.Eng. degree in School of Architecture at Tsinghua University in 2011.
- My current research interest is on smart building and building control. My broad research interests include model-based and data-driven performance enhancement for buildings and cities
- [Curriculum Vitae](http://walterzwang.github.io/files/CV.pdf)


Recent news
======
- We collaborate with Midea to work on **Model Predictive Control for Demand Response** (Aug, 2022) 
- We establish the [Green Building and Smart Construction Lab](https://hkust.shciri.cn/research/platform/288.html) with [HKUST Shen Zhen-Hong Kong Collaborative Innovation Research Institute](https://hkust.shciri.cn/) (Jul, 2022)
- Our team was awarded the [Gold Award](http://walterzwang.github.io/files/2022EMSDAIChallenge.pdf), **Best Use of Tencent Cloud Award**, and **Huawei Most Innovative Use of Data Award** in the [2022 Global AI Challenge for Building E&M Facilites](https://www.globalaichallenge.com/en/home) organized by Hong Kong EMSD (Jun, 2022)
- I gave a guest lecture on Reinforcement Learning for Smart Building Control at *University College London* (Feb, 2022)
- I was awarded the *2021 Foshan University-Enterprise Collaborative R&D Fund*, as the co-PI, working on *Thermal Management for the Autonomous Cruise UVC Disinfection and Microclimate Air-conditioning Robot* (Jan, 2022)
- I accepted the invitation to join [the George H. W. Bush Foundation for U.S.-China Relations](https://bushchinafoundation.org/) as [Fellow](http://walterzwang.github.io/files/BushFoundationFellow.pdf) (Nov, 2021)
- I accepted the invitation to join the editorial board of *Frontiers in Built Environment* as Associate Editor (Nov, 2021)
- I gave a guest lecture on Application of Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) in Smart Buildings at *Syracuse University* (Nov, 2021)
- I accepted the offer to join *The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology* as Assistant Professor (Jul, 2021)
- I gave a talk on Data-driven Smart Building at *The Hong Kong Polytechnic University*. (May, 2021)
- I gave a talk on Data-driven Smart Building at *The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology*. (May, 2021)
- I gave a talk on Data-driven Smart Building at *Tsinghua Shenzhen International Graduate School*. (Mar, 2021)
- I accepted the invitation to join the editorial board of *Building Simulation* as Subject Editor (Jan, 2021)
- I gave a guest lecture on Application of Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) in Smart Buildings at *Syracuse University* (Oct, 2020)
- I presented Improving Building Performance Simulation with Detailed Occupant Movement and Behavior Modeling at *Building Performance Analysis Conference and SimBuild* (Aug, 2020)
- I presented Machine Learning for Anomaly Detection in Subjective Thermal Comfort Votes at *ASHRAE Winter's Conference* (Feb, 2020)
- I presented Inferring Occupant Counts from Wi-Fi Data at *ASHRAE Annual Conference* (Jul, 2019)
- I was invited to give a speech on the [Seventh-Round High-level Consultation on U.S.-China People to People Exchange](https://www.tsinghua.edu.cn/info/1756/71634.htm). This event was chaired by Chinese Vice Premier Yandong Liu and U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry. Zhe was the **ONLY** representative of Chinese young scholar (Jun, 2016)<br/><img src='/images/PeopleToPeopleExchange.png' width='800'>
- I was selected as a [Schwarzman Scholar](http://en.sc.tsinghua.edu.cn/) and enrolled into the [Inaugural Class](https://www.nytimes.com/2016/01/11/business/dealbook/schwarzman-scholars-announces-inaugural-class-to-study-in-china.html) (Dec, 2015)
